24/01/18
EL MELLAH Ileyk

Remaining issues
----------------

1. Computation of the divergence in the viscous stress tensor
- - -
For now, the divergence is computed based on wCT. Since all the flux terms
are computed based on the upwinded wLC and wRC values, I think we should also
compute this divergence based on wLC and wRC. For now, we cannot since they are
defined from ixOmin^D-1 to ixOmax^D, and we need the values for one additional
layer to compute the divergence. Would phys_wider_stencil set to 1 help? See
the way it is currently implemented in finite_volume.
Solution : set phys_wider_stencil to 1

2. Errors at block corners
- - -
Why does the computation with several blocks instead of one yields spurious
growing errors at the block corners? Would the communication of the ghost cells
values induce additional errors?
Solution : set phys_req_diagonal to true

New problem
-----------

Computing the divergence based on wLC and wRC separately leads sometimes
to spurious oscillations which :
  - do not depend on the scheme, the resolution, the CFL parameter
  - depends slightly on the slope limiter (smaller for more diffuse)
  - are not present if we compute a common divergence based on wCT

3. Shearing boundary
- - -
We still have a suspicious result for the pixel immediately next to the upper
boundary (the one which drives the shearing).
Update : probably just a visual effect due to the slice in VisIt.

4. Viscosity without viscosity
- - -
Transverse transport of momentum even without viscosity with hll and tvdlf :
normal? Due to tvdleps. But with tvdlfeps set to 0, steps pattern more likely
to appear (see also below).

5. TVDLF
- - -
With Koren or minmod, in 2step (but not in 4step), gives a segmentation fault.
Not with viscInDiv = F.

6. TVD
- - -
With onestep tvd minmod, an odd even pattern appears, similar to the one for
low Reynolds numbers (see below).

7. Non Cartesian
- - -
The terms in the tensor are not related to gradient or divergence. How do we
handle them? By hand? Safe? Also, beware hd_add_source_geom! It already assumes
a certain flux! We need to change it to account for geometrical terms!

8. Mach
- - -
Slight dependence with hd_adiab : why? The density is uniform so there should
not be any pressure gradient. Is it just due to a smaller time step when we
get very subsonic?

8. Reynolds number
- - -
The Reynolds number is the only relevant quantity of this problem. However,
low Reynolds numbers (ie high viscosity) configurations yield an unexpected
steps pattern in the resulting vx(y) profile. Where does it come from? At high
Mach numbers we retrieve a classical computational problem : the CFL condition
prescribes a time step which is way too small compared to the characteristic
diffusion time scale because when viscosity is low, diffusion has a much much
slower impact on the dynamic of the flow. No trace of turbulence in this
simple configuration though, even for a Reynolds of 1000. Is it still too low
or do we need to seed turbulence with a small transverse initial speed?

To do
-----

1. Once confident about the fact that the transverse dimension remains "neutral"
with the schemes we use, we could make this setup 1.5D. It would require to
adapt the computation of the viscous stress tensor which assumes for the moment
ndir=ndim.

Extensions
----------

0. More detailed numerical analysis of the Couette flow. For instance,
monitoring of the relaxation and comparison to the analytical formula given
on Wikipedia page devoted to Couette flow.

1. Numerical setups
  - cylindrical Couette
  - Orr-Sommerfeld (with first Poiseuille as a particular case)

2. In all these cases, evaluate the stability of the flow to small perturbations
and compare to the analytical stability criteria. What about the stability to
finite (ie of the order of magnitude of the steady values) perturbations
(ie non-linear stability)?

3. We could verify at low viscosity the matching with results for inviscid
fluids such as :
  - Rayleigh's inflexion point theorem
  - Fjortoft’s theorem
  - Tollmien’s result
  - Howard’s semi-circle theorem

Bibliography
------------

Astrophysical Flows, King and Pringle
